---
published: false
---
## A Letter to a Doctor

Dr, I tried to write down some background as you requested. If you want something further, please tell me.
 
I was never a normal child, even when I was very young at ages six to eight, I doubted my ability to empathize with or love others, often being angry at people, and then often having exaggerated displays of emotions, such as crying after tantrums. I would sometimes attend my swimming classes and as I would come back home walking in the park and looking at the stars, I would realize that my family loved me so much and would feel a wretched sensation inside me because I did not know why I was the source of so much conflict and fights and anger in my family. I would be often angry and the anger was two-dimensional, I was also angry at the fact that I was angry at others without cause.
 
Once when I was six years old, my mother bought me a colouring book for my birthday, my first real gift, and there was a cut-out mask at the back of the book which I asked her to cut out for me and when she did it slightly imperfectly I flew into a catastrophic anger, hitting her and blaming her not realizing what I was doing and why I was doing it though being aware of my anger and the physical actions I was taking to let it out. Maybe it was enormous frustration in my mind that nothing was ever right in my life but that couldn’t be so because everything was really right in my life but inwards maybe in my brain there was frustration and pain for some reason, maybe I was a brain-damaged child, that caused me to act out like this. There didn’t really seem to be a plausible alternate explanation why I was such a different child and I realized it.
 
My parents when young were trying to keep from the brink of divorce for our children’s sake, and there were times when the atmosphere at home, often for the length of months extended to heights of being violent and abusive.
 
At school, even pre-school and first standard, the other kids would single me out and not talk to me, avoid me even, and since that young age I had an innate sense of being different from others. I had my own few friends and I was happy at the attention they bestowed on me but I did feel different and a sense of alienation when others would sometimes say things that singled me out.
 
I barely managed education, being absolutely no good at anything, even the most elementary of arithmetics escaped me, even the most elementary of science and hindi vocabulary escaped me. The only things I was good at were those I had a pet interest in and had encouragement from teachers of those subjects – being English and computers.
 
As a result, I was the focus of innumerable scoldings and punishments in class, and school life was not enjoyable for me except for the time spent with my friends, who were few, but a better crowd than most of the class.
 
I somehow managed up till middle of Class 7 after which school life was not pleasant for me at all and I often refused to go. My mother sent me to Ahmedabad where I spent six months (age 13) in a new school staying at my uncle’s house. I did pretty well there, had friends, enjoyed school, came back to Kolkata, joined a new school, which turned out to have one of the worst class environments I had ever seen. Students threw chairs here and there and broke electric fans and doors – overall rowdy and extremely lewd, and I could not adjust at all to the point by the next three years, I refused to go to school at all. This period of life Class 8 – 10, my mother was mostly absent from my life due to occupational responsibilities and earning money to pay the bills through, coming home late at night with my father trying to run the home, often as theirs was not a good relationship, there were recurrent fights. This atmosphere made me recluse into my own room, and I would often not come out. I developed rage attacks where if my father verbally abused me, I would break things like a glass table, often hiding the fact that I broke it at first, letting it be assumed to be an accident, then fits of rage where I shattered glass objects by the dozen, cutting my hand afterwards with a shard of glass due to the depression, and tears coming out from my eyes, spending days in my room, crying and crying, feeling like no one loved me, feeling lonely, and completely empty and inadequate. My speech during this period (Class 8 – 10) devolved into me not speaking much at all, often not being able to make out people’s words, what they were saying and having to ask them to repeat often because I had difficulty understanding, and when I was speaking they had difficulty understanding, maybe I developed very slurred speech, and I had trouble sequencing the sounds out of my mouth to be able to speak, I had trouble knowing how to initiate and how to carry through speech sounds intelligibly, at that time, I felt very conscious of myself also and assumed that that was the reason, though I was well aware that I had a huge difficulty speaking, and others joked in my class that I don’t know how to speak or even laugh properly. I also had to exert a great force to speak as if my throat was somehow dry and labour a lot to speak and had to repeat myself even after that. As I have tried to forget this traumatic stage of my life, I don’t remember much of it but mostly remember that I was greatly crying and had numerous rage attacks.
 
Later, my speech problem mostly went away, but rage attacks and depression have persisted without medication to treat the same. Sometimes, during the later stages of speech problem going away I had instances where I spoke and understood normally but had flashes where something would go amiss as if I was no longer connected with my surroundings and what people would say during that moment would go amiss, and I would fail to know what they had said during that moment and I would just let it go. Since I recall those persiods of being ‘zoned out’ better than the earlier traumatic stage of life, I wonder if the dysarthria and inability to understand could have been an intermittent phenomenon, but I have no clue.
 
Anyway, after Class 10 I was medicated with neuroleptics as the main stay of treatment (although I do not know if they are conducive to treating the problems I have best as also they give me the worst side effects that I can barely tolerate and I have tried numerous neuroleptics to the point that I believe I have a sensitivity syndrome). After battling a diagnosis of schizophrenia because I do not believe my symptoms resemble what I have read of it, I self medicated for a while in 2015, and was subsequently admitted to a nursing home (psych ward) because of unstoppable rage attacks and rage where I broke and smashed a lot of glass windows and was a danger to myself and society, myself also as since I would scream and scream all day long, bad things at everyone and about everything, I could have had a cardiac event or something of that accord.
 
Intermittently I have also experienced looping musical hallucinations of recognizable songs and singing where it seems it is coming in a very low whisper-volume from outside. But absolutely never auditory hallucinations or any schizophrenic symptoms. Just rage attacks and depression, sometimes loose suspicion based on past actual events, mostly just rage attacks and depression.
 
I really want to know what problem I have, whatever the treatment might be, because coming to terms with my disorder is necessary for my moral and mental integrity and wholeness.
 
If it is psychosis, or a psychotic syndrome, I want to know honestly. And if it is some form of brain disorder or damage or dysfunction, I would like to know.

